Dr Grace Johnson, a specialist, has said bitter leaf works so well for fertility, and fights prostate cancer because its boost the functions of the reproductive system, balance hormones and help the ovary release healthy eggs. Johnson, who is Food Nutritionist, told News Agency  in Abuja on Monday, that the effect of bitter leaf ranges from specifically toning the reproductive organs and boosting overall health. According to her, the problem with a lot of infertile patients is that they do not connect infertility with “fertile nutrition”. “Good nutrition is considered to be the foundation of a healthy body. That is why a healthy ovary will only be found in a healthy body. “When the ovary is healthy, it releases a healthy egg (ovum) which once fertilized, results in a healthy pregnancy and if all goes well, you will have a healthy child. “Bitter leaf has a bitter taste and it is true that most people cannot withstand it but remember that the best of medicines comes with a bitter taste and bitter leaf is ranked high among them,’’ she said . NAN reports that bitter leaf plant with leafy green vegetable and used in the form of vegetable eaten to promote and enhance the digestive tract to do job. Johnson said “bitter leaf fight prostate cancer which is common among men who are over 40 years old and one of its known symptoms is difficult and painful urination. “Bitter leaf is very good for this ailment. It increases the flow of urine and reduces the pain as well as regulates the spread of the cell. “To fight prostate cancer with bitter leaf, just squeeze the fresh leaves in water and take a glassful four times daily while you constantly go for a checkup. She added that bitter leaf also fight Insomnia, `insomnia is a condition that promotes habitual sleeplessness’. Nutritionist, however, said that bitter leaf extract has been doing wonders for those suffering from sleeplessness by taking two glasses of bitter leaf solution every night and they would experience a calmness and sleep. She said that almost everybody knows bitter leaf is a well-known remedy for stomachaches treating malaria, typhoid, diabetes, diarrhea, tuberculosis, gallstones, kidney disease, prevention of cancer and lowering of hypertension among others. “It is important that bitter leaves should always be taken fresh in other to enjoy its miraculous health benefits,’’ Johnson said. (NAN) 