The Borno State Office of the Multi-Sectoral Crisis Recovery Project with the support of Borno State Fadama has distributed Nine Hundred Sheep and Rams to three hundred Households across ten communities in Bama Local Government. Led by the Technical Coordinator and Programme Manager Baba Zanna Abdulkarim, the ruminants were distributed to the worst hit returnees in the ten selected communities affected by at the Local Government Secretariat in Bama town. Flagging off the Ruminants Distribution Programme, Mr. Abdulkarim said the ruminants were meant to help give the victims sense of belonging and improve their income generating capacity and nutrition in line with global practice. The distribution of ruminants is part of the activities scheduled under Component 1, the first phase of the MCRP, which addresses transitional support for beneficiaries. Under the scheme, each family will receive two ewes and one ram to pair for livelihood sustainability. Also speaking, the Administrative Officer of the MCRP, Mallam Sale Ahmed Habib advised the beneficiaries to take good care of the animals to enable them to reproduce in good time. He further added that the animals are the sole property of the households and no one should attempt to take it from them. He also urged them to make good use of the dedicated telephone lines to lodge their grievances if any for swift response by the project officials. Being valuable assets, the ruminants being valuable assets he said will help stabilize the family income of the benefiting households and urged them not to sell them now but after two years of procreation. Muhammad Musa who fled from Chukwu Ngadowa and Asabe Buba of Gulumba are among the three hundred beneficiaries who said it will help strengthen social cohesion and community relations in addition to serving as income generating assets and when they produce more. They observed that keeping such ruminants is part of their culture stressing that as the community it is their tradition to share milk and beef of such animals during naming and wedding ceremonies when they eventually produce more. While expressing gratitude over the gesture the beneficiaries also pledged to keep the animals for their family benefits. Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. Produces when not on Social media.