The Presidential Committee on Northeast Initiative (PCNI) has trained 20 journalists on conflict and humanitarian reporting in Borno, to fast-track reconstruction and rehabilitation of the zone. The 3-day training exercise with the theme: “Conflict Sensitive, Humanitarian and Development Reporting”, was organized in collaboration with Borno chapter of the Nigeria Union of Journalist (NUJ). The Project Coordinator, Prof. Lai Oso, said the training was designed to expose reporters to precaution and safety tips, critical humanitarian issues, photography, and software application techniques as well as usage of social media platform in their reportage. Oso said the exercise would improve the understanding of reporters in post-conflict; peacebuilding and humanitarian issues, to enable them to discharge their duties effectively. He noted that the training would enable the reporters to contribute positively to the Rehabilitation, Reconstruction, and Resettlement (RRR) process of communities ravaged by the Boko Haram insurgency. Oso suggested the introduction of psychosocial support programmes to address traumatic condition experienced by the reporters in the course of covering conflicts caused by the insurgency. PCNI’s Vice Chairman, Alhaji Tijjani Tumsa, admonished reporters to shun negative reportage to fast-track implementation of the rehabilitation programmes initiated by the Federal Government. Tumsa, who was represented by Hajiya Amina Maibi, said the committee relied on the media to achieve its objectives. He reiterated the committee’s commitments to collaborate with the media to create awareness on its activities; address the humanitarian crisis and enhance peace restoration in the region. Alhaji Yerima Saleh, the Commissioner for RRR, lauded the committee over the gesture, adding that it would go a long way to encourage development journalism. Saleh said that the state government appreciated the contributions of the media to the peacebuilding process in the state. According to him, the state government had so far rehabilitated various displaced communities with the support of the PCNI, UN, World Bank, British Department for International Development (DIFD) and others. Saleh disclosed that the state government would resettle more communities through the ‘Village Group Initiative”, as well as provide livelihood supports to fast-track social and economic development of the state. Also, the NUJ Chairman, Alhaji Babashiekh Lawal, commended the PCNI over its support to the association, adding that the trainees were drawn from various media organizations operating in the state. Lawal called on the PCNI to expand the scope of the training programme to enable more of its members to benefit from the exercise. The trainees were presented with certificates, laptop computers, digital cameras and memory cards at the end of the exercise. Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. Produces when not on Social media.