Fifty gangsters, known variously as Yan Sarasuka or Yan Shara in Kaduna state, have been arrested. Mr. Samuel Aruwan, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, said the suspects would be arraigned before magistrates’ court after investigations. The suspects were arrested in different locations in Kaduna town as security agencies investigate last weekend’s outrage by hoodlums in parts of the city. Governor El-rufai also directed security agencies to deal decisively with the menace of urban hoodlums. “The Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai has received briefings from security agencies on the outrage perpetrated by urban gangsters, notoriously known as Yan Shara or Sarasuka. “The Governor has also visited Abakpa community where he interacted with some members of the community and condemned the criminal actions of the gangsters. “Security agencies have informed the Governor of the arrest updates on the arrest of over 50 suspects. The governor requested that the police and the Ministry of Justice to ensure prompt investigations and diligent prosecution of whoever is indicted. “He urged the police to ensure that fleeing suspects do not escape justice, declaring that all government agencies must work to collectively end the menace.” Similarly, Aruwan also clarified the position of the Kaduna State Government on the proliferation of vigilante groups in the state. “The Kaduna State Government has made it clear that only the Kaduna State Vigilance Service is empowered by the law to regulate vigilante activity in the state. “Any community that wishes to make a contribution to security and intelligence gathering in their area should forward the persons they are presenting to the Kaduna State Vigilance Service and the security agencies for thorough screening. “This is to ensure they such persons have no criminal records or tendencies that could compromise the security and well-being of the citizenry. “By this clarification, communities should liaise with the Kaduna State Vigilance Service to make arrangements for their communities.” 