The Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) Elders’ Forum on Friday appealed to former Gov. Segun Oni  to withdraw the suit challenging the eligibility of the governor-elect, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, for the July 14 governorship election. The  News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) reports that the APC elders came out with the position at the end of a marathon meeting held in Igbara Odo, in Ekiti South West Local Government Area of the state. The meeting which was presided over by its Chairman, Chief George Akosile asked  Oni to withdraw the case against the governor-elect in the interest of the party. According to a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting , the APC elders said the withdrawal of the case by Oni and his group will facilitate an out-of-court settlement. In the communiqué signed by Akosile and the Forum’s Secretary, Chief Abiodun Ajayi, the APC elders resolved to send a five-man delegation to Oni with a letter appealing for the withdrawal of the case. NAN reports that the Ekiti APC Elders’ Forum also resolved to send a memo to Fayemi to reconcile with the aggrieved Segun Oni’s group with a view to withdrawing the case from court and their inclusion in the forthcoming administration. ” From our findings, the Elders’ Forum is aware that the case is still pending in the Federal High Court, Abuja “We hereby wish to appeal to Chief Segun Oni and his group to withdraw the case from the Federal High Court, Abuja as to facilitate an out-of-court settlement in the interest of the APC Family in Ekiti State, in particular and Nigeria in general.” NAN recalls that a group loyal to the former governor approached the court in Abuja, after the APC primary, urging it to nullify Fayemi’s candidacy on grounds that he (Fayemi) did not properly resign from his position as Minister of Mines and Steel Development 30 days before the APC primary, as dictated by the law. Fayemi had won the APC governorship primary held on May 12 in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, by polling a total of 941 votes, beating  Segun Oni, who scored 481 votes to the second place and 31 other aspirants The Oni group also dragged Fayemi to court on grounds that he was indicted by Ekiti State Judicial Commission of Inquiry set up by Governor Ayo Fayose and handed a 10-year ban from holding public office. Oni, as the Claimant/Applicant filed the suit before a Federal High Court, Abuja presided over by Justice Nnamdi Dimgba. The suit is marked FHC/ABJ/CS/663/18. Joined as Defendants/Respondents in the case are Dr. Fayemi, APC and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Justice Dimgba  on 20th August issued an ex parte order for substituted service on the defendants. NAN reports that Segun Oni’s supporters said the court case was triggered by alleged non-inclusiveness, ostracisation, marginalisation and demonstration of open hatred for them by Fayemi’s supporters. 