Former Senate Minority Leader, Obong Godswill Akpabio says his decision to decamp from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling c(APC) was in national interest. Akpabio, the former  Governor of Akwa Ibom, stated this at a grand rally in Ikot Ekpene on Wednesday where he formerly declared for the APC. He said that the nationalist instinct in him also informed his decision at a time the nation needed peace to grapple with pressing challenges. “I decided to join the APC at this time because I am a nationalist. In times like this, everybody should support to bring peace to our dear nation; to stop the killings and ensure employment for our teeming youths. “With my declaration, uncommon change has come to Akwa Ibom. We believe that South-South cannot stand alone on its own. “We need to collaborate with others. I consulted. What I have done today is to take the people of the South-South to the centre. “Whatever I do is in the interest of of Akwa Ibom. I want to leave a legacy in the national interest. He also urged his former party to have what he called a reward system. “With my exit, this is the end of PDP in Niger Delta Delta’’. He also urged Nigerians to believe in the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Do not be afraid of President Muhammadu Buhari. If your hands are clean. Nigerians have not seen the best of Buhari; so give him the chance.’’ He stressed the need for the National Assembly to reconvene at this time of national emergency. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that APC stalwarts at the event included the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Party Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and former Lagos state Governor. Those who decamped with Akpabio from PDP were former Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Udom Ekpoudom and former Secretary to the State Government Eteakamba Umoren among others. According to Prince Augustine Ikono, APC chapter Chairman in Ikot ekpene, 50 others also decamped from PDP to APC in Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area. 