Hadiza Umar, Abuja: The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has recently cleared a number of ICT Security and Systems Infrastructure Upgrade projects of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) through its commitment as the government’s clearinghouse for all IT procurement and services in the public sector. The projects cleared include: 1. Enterprise Network Security – Gateway Security Project, aimed at upgrading the Bank’s network security appliances and ensures that network security appliances are highly available and provides comprehensive real-time protection against advanced threats. 2. The Intelligence Security Operations Center project that is aimed at providing a dedicated center, technology and team for continuous monitoring of the Bank’s network to prevent, detect and deal with Cyber-attacks. 3. Implementation of a Network Access Control (NAC) Solution – a security approach designed to restrict the availability of network resources to endpoint devices – aimed at enhancing infrastructure security as well as limit potential effects from emerging security threats. 4. The Identity and Access Management Solution project aimed at ensuring that the right individuals access the right resources/applications at the right times and for the right reasons. It may be recalled that Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, FBCS, the Director General/CEO, in one of his recent press statements, alerted the country on potential cyber-attacks likely to be experienced, targeting banking, health and other systems, power and transportation systems, as well as other critical national infrastructure. The CBN, in its efforts towards mitigating these threats, especially in the country’s financial institutions, initiated the implementation of these projects. The Director General, in his clearance letter, commended the Bank for the proactive manner in handling these threats and reiterated NITDA’s continued support for all initiatives aimed at ensuring that the country’s cyberspace is safe and secure. It may be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, during last year’s e-Nigeria International Conference and Exhibition, called for strict compliance to the IT Project’s Clearance directive by all government establishments. He also used the event to commend the Agency’s efforts at enforcing Federal Government’s directive on ensuring that all ICT projects are cleared before they are implemented. The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) is an Agency of the Federal Government. The Agency was created in April 2001 to implement the Nigerian Information Technology Policy and coordinate general IT development and regulation in the country. Specifically, Section 6(a & c) of the Act mandates NITDA to create a framework for the planning, research, development, standardization, application, coordination, monitoring, evaluation and regulation of Information Technology practices, activities and systems in Nigeria and render advisory services in all information technology matters to the public and private sectors. A.M Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. With a decade experience in Television journalism, and a graduate of University of Maiduguri. Tanimu also produces TV shows with NTA when not on Social media.