Below is a press statement from the SSA to the president on Foreign Affairs, Abike Dabiri signed by her Media aide, Abdulrahman Balogun; “Our attention has been drawn to obviously fake online news reports on the visit of some members of the MLK family to Nigeria. The members, led by the Matriarch of MLK, Naomi Barbara King, were in Nigeria as part of the activities initiated to celebrate a low- key Black History Month in Nigeria as part of deepening partnership between Africa and its Diaspora. As part of the activities, they visited President Muhammadu Buhari and gave him a commemorative plaque for his fight against corruption and what they termed from the “ Africania Diaspora” a term for Africans in Diaspora for which the oldest of them all Naomi Barbara King was selected to present on behalf of the family (NOT MLK CENTER) as a sign of appreciation to the Nigerian President. It must be categorically stated here that the trip was totally privately funded and not one kobo was spent by the Nigerian government as it was all a private initiative. However, after two days in Nigeria, one of the members apparently granted an interview which was seen as being political, asking Nigerians to give President Muhammadu Buhari a chance to continue his good works especially of fighting corruption in Nigeria. As a non-political group, he was asked to refute the statement, which he refused to, insisting that was how he felt, and it was his personal opinion, not that of the family nor the center, of which he is a board member and was the Chief Operating Officer for over five years. This may have led to some arguments among them, which they have said they will resolve when they get back to the US., which apparently led to the tweet being circulated The visit to Nigeria was quite successful that they extended their stay for two major days, surprised at the negative reports on Nigeria. Members of the public are hereby urged to please discountenance any fake news about the visit and avoid the temptation of destroying all the good things for the sake of Politics.President Muhammadu Buhari achievements in the fight against corruption is undeterred and sacrosanct.” A.M Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. With a decade experience in Television journalism, and a graduate of University of Maiduguri. Tanimu also produces TV shows with NTA when not on Social media.