Boko Haram Dead Body’s Nigerian Army on Monday said its troops killed six Boko Haram insurgents and seven suicide bombers in an attack at Bale Shuwa and Alkaramti communities of Maiduguri. The army also confirmed that 15 persons including a soldier lost their lives and 83 others wounded when the insurgents attacked the communities on Sunday. Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, the Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Operation Lafiya Dole, said in a statement in Maiduguri that gallant troops repelled the insurgents’ attack. “Troops deployed in the Cashew Plantation around Bale Shuwa and Alikaramti villages have quashed an attempt by Boko Haram terrorists to penetrate Maiduguri metropolis on sunday at about 8:10 p.m. “The insurgents met with stiff resistance of troops who killed six of the insurgents and neutralized seven suicide bombers in the encounter. “The troops also recovered two AK 47 rifles and two magazines; the Nigerian Police Explosive Ordnance Disposal team have detonated two Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) vests recovered from the killed suicide bombers. “They were beaten by the troops and unable to force their way into the metropolis, the insurgents retreated and callously resorted to attacking locals, who were fleeing in confusion from Bale Shuwa and Alkaramti villages. “Sadly, 15 persons including a soldier have so far been confirmed dead in the encounter, while 83 persons who suffered varying degrees of injuries are receiving due medical attention; troops are still on the trail of the insurgents,’’ he said. Meanwhile, a 14 year-old Boko Haram insurgent, Rawa Babagana, has surrendered to troops of Operation Lafiya Dole. Nwachukwu disclosed that the insurgent escaped from the Boko Haram enclave at Kekeno in the northern fringes of the Lake Chad Islands, adding that the suspect was being profiled. The army spokesman noted that remnants of the terrorists were targeting soft targets in their beat to remain relevant and called for collective vigilance by all security stakeholders and the public. He also called on the people to be vigilant and report suspicious and activities in their communities to security agencies.(NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.