  (NAN) Zamfara Sokoto, Kebbi and states recorded 44 deaths in 74 road crashes between January and March, the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) has said. The Zonal Commanding Officer in charge of three states, Mr Ayobami Omiyale, told the journalists Wednesday during an interview. He described speeding, over-loading and dangerous driving as the major causes of the road carnage in the three states. Omiyale solicited media partnership with the FRSC formations on routine sensitisation campaigns toward ensuring safer and accident free roads across the country. He said the zonal command office had sanctioned about 700 vehicles on various traffic offences from May 2017 to Feb.2018 in the states. The zonal commander disclosed that hundreds of driver’s licenses remained unclaimed in the zone.  He urged transport workers and community groups to assist the commission in educating people, especially drivers, on importance of possessing required driving permits. According to him, the zonal command has embarked on 24 hours patrol to ensure accident-free roads. Omiyale cautioned road drivers and other road users to abide by the traffic rules regulations and ensure good mechanical condition of their vehicles. “I urge journalists to collaborate with the commission in monitoring all categories of road users, including our men and report any act of wrongdoing to the relevant authorities. “We have sensitised all the sector commands in this zone, mobilised them, including special marshals. ‘’We also engaged other security personnel on rescue in a bid to prevent loss of life during accident in the zone.” “We are empowered by the law to enforce traffic laws and ensure safety of users,” he said. Omiyale explained that rescuing life, especially during road crashes should be collective responsibility. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of online journalism tools & Social media management. I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA