The Deputy Speaker, Rt. Hon. Yussuff Lasun presided. After leading the opening prayer, he went on to examine and approve plenary votes and proceedings for Tuesday, April 17, 2018 MOTION OF URGENT PUBLIC IMPORTANCE Leader of the House, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila moved a motion on the attack on the Senate Chambers by suspected hoodlums who carted away the Mace of the Senate. He lamented the poor security at the National Assembly as has been exposed by the incident. He also lamented the porous nature of the National Assembly where all sorts of wares are hawked. He called for a sanitization of the system and asked that the House constitute a small delegation to go and commiserate with the Senate. He also urged for the creation of a committee to address the porous security situation. He went on to explain that the House would have left sitting in solidarity with the Senate, but the leadership of the House has refused to give in to the wishes of those whom he described as terrorists. Members opted to pay a solidarity visit to the Senate, as opposed to sending a delegation and plenary was adjourned for 30 minutes in order to allow them do this. Following the solidarity visit to the Senate chamber, the House proceeded with the debate on the motion. Hon. Bode Ayorinde stated that the intruders have constituted a security breach that left the security personnel injured. He moved for the formal condemnation of the incident. Hon. Tajudeen Yusuf stated that timely and decisive action must be taken to tackle the incident and forestall any future occurrence. Hon. Mojeed stated that Parliament is seemingly under attack and anyone attacking the Parliament is attacking democracy. He praised majority of Nigerians for being on the side of true democracy. He decried the porosity of the security network in the National Assembly. Hon. Sunday Karimi stated that the incident was an attempt at silencing democracy, and that even though the assailants made away with the mace, their attack was akin to a failed coup. Hon. Hassan Saleh pointed out that the House cannot sit aside, fold their hands and watch the continuous assault on the Institution of Parliament, and that action needs to be taken. Hon. Ahman-Pategi stated that the incident was not a coincidence, but a well thought-out attack, and called on security agents to be alive to their duties. Hon. Razak Atunwa drew attention to the fact that the hoodlums who invaded the Senate chamber were armed and asked why they needed weapons to grab the mace. He added that perhaps, their intention was to cause maximum damage and if the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki had been presiding, they may very well have made an attempt on his life. Hon. Orker Jev stated that such incidents as the one that transpired in the Senate was supposed to be criminalized, as it was a blatant attack on democracy. Hon. Mohammed Monguno decried the incidents of criminality all around the country. He lamented that the nation was showing the symptoms of being a failed state as the primary responsibility of any Government is to provide security, and anyone who cannot ensure this as a leader is not fit to be a leader. He called for the complete overhaul of the national security apparatus. Deputy Speaker of the House explained that the House doesn’t need to set-up any Ad-Hoc Committee to investigate, as the Senate would also be conducting an investigation into the matter. Hon. Nwankwo Moved for the Second Reading of the Bill and it was Seconded by Hon. Julius Pondi. Hon. Nwankwo in leading the debate stated that the bank is no more in existence and its functions have been overtaken. He stated that the guiding Law of the bank is also obsolete and should be done away with from the Statute Book to reflect modern day realities. The Bill was voted on, passed for Second Reading, the Clerk Read the Long Title of the Bill and it was referred to the Committee on Banking and Currency. Hide quoted text A Bill for an Act to Establish Critical National Assets and Infrastructure Centre to be saddled with the Responsibility of Identification, Prioritizing, Coordinating and Policy Development for Protection of Infrastructure; and for Related Matters (HB.1181) (Hon. Aminu Sani Jaji) – Second Reading. Debate Hon. Jaji Moved for the Second Reading of the Bill and Hon. Buba Jega Seconded it. In leading the debate, Hon. Jaji stated that the Bill seeks to correct impeding issues that hinder the proper use of the human and material assets of the nation. He stated that during the course of Oversights in many Committees he is a Member of, many Agencies keep pointing out the same issues as impediments to their proper function. He stated that the Bill if passed would ensure the coordination of Policy and Infrastructure development. Hon. Ujam Chukwuemeka sought to find out which infrastructure fall under the ones the Bill needs to develop and if the intended Bill took into cognizance the critical infrastructure Bill in place? Hon. Nkem Abonta stated that a lot of functions of Agencies may be laid moribund if the Bill is passed. He stated that the body of the Bill doesn’t do justice with the infrastructure it seeks to boost. He called for the stepping down of the Bill for more Legislative action. Hon. Jaji concurred and sought for the stepping down of the Bill for further consultation. The Bill was stepped down by leave of the House. A Bill for an Act to Amend the provisions of the Electoral Act, No. 6, 2010 to further Improve the Electoral Process and for Related Matters (HB.1425) (Hon. Aishatu Jibril Dukku and 7 Others) – Second Reading. Item stepped down by leave of the House A Bill for an Act to Amend the provisions of the Electoral Act, No. 6, 2010 to make Provision for sequence of Elections in Nigeria; and for Related Matters (HB.1426) (Hon. Edward Gyang Pwajok and 7 Others) – Second Reading. Debate Hon. Pwajok moved for the Stepping down of the Bill after due and wide consultation. Bill stepped down by leave of the House. The Leader of the House, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila queried the listing of his name on the Bill as a co-sponsor when he knew nothing of it, he asked the secretariat to strike out his name. A Bill for an Act to Establish the Council for the Regulation of Travel Agents in Nigeria; Provide for the Registration of Persons who by way of Business, Negotiate for or otherwise Act in Relation to Selling of Travel Services on behalf of Transport Carriers to facilitate Carriage by Air, Rail or Road of Passengers and for the Control, Regulation and Orderly Development of Passengers Travel Distribution in Nigeria; and for Related Matters (HB. 1321) (Hon. Nkeiruka C. Onyejeocha) – Second Reading. Item stepped down by leave of the House. MOTIONS Need to Reconstruct the Ulakwo-Imerienwe-Ozuzu-Etche Road: Hon. Bede Eke: The House: Notes that Ulakwo-Imerienwe-Ozuzu-Etche Road is a Federal road connecting Imo State to Rivers and other States; Also notes that due to the deplorable condition of the road, the indigenes of Imo State and residents in those areas have been cut off from both the State Capital and neighbouring States; Dismayed that the deplorable condition of the road is one of many reasons for accidents and proliferation of criminal activities in those areas, and has consequently stalled economic activities in the affected communities; Cognizant of the need for the Federal Government to reconstruct the road to enhance commercial activities as well as security of lives and properties in the eastern and southern parts of the country; Resolves to: (i) Urge the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to commence reconstruction of the Ulakwo-Imerienwe-Ozuzu-Etche Road and ensure that money is provided for in the NDDC 2018 budget estimates; (ii) Mandate the Committee on Legislative Compliance to ensure compliance. Debate Hon. Eke moved the Motion, it was Seconded by Hon. Abdulraham Shuaibu. As an infrastructure related Motion, it was voted on and passed. Need to Review the Ban and Restriction on Motorcycle Operators within the Federal Capital City: Hon. Fredrick Agbedi: The House: Notes that the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), on October 1, 2006, introduced the ban on the operation of commercial motorcycles, popularly known as okada, as a means of transportation in the Federal Capital City; Concerned that in a bid to enforce the ban, the task force has resorted to seizing the motorcycles and, rather than impose a fine, burn the motorcycles including those owned by individuals for their personal use; Aware that some areas in the satellite towns of the Federal Capital Territory can only be accessed by motorcycles, being the sole means of transportation in those areas; Also aware that some security personnel and courier service operators use motorcycles in the discharge of their duties; Also concerned that as noble as the ban policy is, there are no clear means of identifying and/or differentiating a commercial motorcycle from a private one, hence private motorcyclists have suffered unduly from the enforcement of the ban; Resolves to: Urge the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory to: (i) direct the task force to immediately release all seized motorcycles not used for commercial purposes; (ii) work out modalities for differentiating between private and commercial motorcycle operators; and (iii) issue a directive to the effect that, rather than burn confiscated motorcycles, a punitive fine should be imposed to serve as a deterrent. Item Stepped down by leave of the House. Need to Stop the Illegal Mining Activities that Polluted Uke–Karshi River in Karu Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. Hon. Gaza Jonathan Gbefwi: The House: Notes that natural resources and the environment at large especially Rivers are meant for enjoyment of all citizenry within the vicinity; Also notes that pollution of all kinds is prohibited under the law and this has led to establishment of the National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA); Worried that due to mining activities around Uke-Kashi River, the river that hitherto served as a source of drinking water, irrigation and contained aquatic life has become polluted by the waste from the illegal mining activities; Further worried that the pollution has led to the death of all aquatic life in the river which if not checked could have an effect on the eco system as well as people in the area who suffer from acute shortage of drinking water and can no longer have access to the river as an alternative source. Resolves to: (i) mandate the Committee on Environment and Habitat to liaise with NESREA, in line with the statutory duties of NESREA, to end the pollution of the Uke-Karshi River; (ii) also mandate the Committee on Solid Minerals to liaise with the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development to verify the status of the miners and if found to be mining illegally, they should be apprehended and the necessary punitive action be taken against them, and report back to the house within 8 weeks for further legislative action. Debate Hon. Gaza Moved the Motion and it was Seconded by Hon. Hon. Chukwuka Onyema. In leading the debate, Hon. Gaza stated that the illegal mining activities has caused more harm than can be mentioned in the environment especially around the Uke-Kashi River. The crude method with which the illegal miners use constitutes a health hazard to the human and aquatic population of the area. He called on the House as the hope of the people to ensure the sanity, healthcare and wellbeing of the people is guaranteed. The Motion was voted on and passed, with the assurance of speedy and decisive action by the House. CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS (HOUSE IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE) Rt. Hon. Yussuff Lasun Presiding Hon. Yusuf Ayo Tajudeen: “That the House do consider the Report of the Committee on Capital Market and Institutions on Need to Intervene in the Conflict between the Minister of Finance and the Suspended Director-General, Securities and Exchange Commission and approve the recommendations therein” (Laid: 29/3/2018) (Committee of the Whole) (i) that based on the Constitutional Provisions and other extant laws, as well as relevant provisions of the Public Service Rules cited and referred to, the suspension of Mr. Munir Gwarzo, the former Director General of Securities and Exchange Commission by the Hon. Minister of Finance should stand; (ii) that based on the petitions by various Stakeholders of Oando, the Committee agreed to conduct investigation of Oando Plc; (iii) that based on the Public Service Rules and the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Manual, the two Staff of Securities and Exchange Commission, Mrs. Anastacia O. Braimoh and Mr. Naif Abdulsalam should be recalled from suspension and report to duty immediately; 946​​​​​Wednesday 18, April, 2018​​​​ No. 145 (iiii) that the case of Mrs. Anastasia Braimoh and Mr. Naif Abdulsalam should be referred to the Management of the Securities and Exchange Commission for disciplinary action in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Manual. Petition by Ordinary President (Dr.) Ahmed Isah: Hon. Uzoma Nkem-Abonta: “That the House do resume consideration of the Report of the Committee on Public Petitions on the Petition by Ordinary President (Dr.) Ahmed Isah on behalf of Samuel David and Eight others against the Chairman, Suleja Local Government Council of Niger State on the forceful Demolition of Houses belonging to Original Inhabitants of the Old Army Barracks Suleja, Niger State and approve the recommendation therein” (Adjourned Consideration: 28/2/2018); Urge the Chairman, Suleja Local Government Council of Niger State to: (i) restore the displaced people back to their Land (ii) plan the Area and improve its sanitary conditions; and (iii) provide adequate infrastructure for the inhabitants. Petition by Olumuyiwa Ogunlami and Co.: Hon. Uzoma Nkem-Abonta: ‘That the House do consider the Report of the Committee on Public Petitions on the Petition by Olumuyiwa Ogunlami and Co. on behalf of Delfino Anthonia Mekanda and three other family Members against the Federal Government and the Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos on the Refusal of the Federal Government to pay compensation on their Land acquired for Establishment of the University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos State, also joined in the petition are the Attorney-General of the Federation, the Surveyor-General of the Federation and the Federal Ministry of Education and approve the recommendations therein” (Hon. Uzoma Nkem-Abonta)(Adjourned Consideration: 28/2/2018)(Laid: 20/2/2018); (i) Urge the University to vacate and desist from encroaching on the Area of Land not acquired vide Government Notice Number 2444 dated 12 December, 1962, published in the Federal Gazette Number 105 Volume 49 of 29 December 1962; (ii) that the Federal Ministry of Education, Federal Ministry of Works and the Attorney-General of the Federation should do the needful to determine the compensation payable to Delfino Anthonia Mekanda and three other family Members; and (iii) that the sum of N4, 000, 000, 000 (Four Billion Naira) only be provided in the 2018 budget, for the purpose of compensation to Delfino Anthonia Mekanda and three other family Members when determined. Item iii Deleted Petition by Ahmed Tijani Yusuf Esq.: Hon. Uzoma Nkem-Abonta: “That the House do consider the Report of the Committee on Public Petitions on the Petition by Ahmed Tijani Yusuf Esq. against the Federal Road Safety Commission on fraudulent operation of private account and approve the recommendation therein” (Laid: 21/11/2017). That the Federal Road Safety Commission be guided by the extant laws and regulation on procurement and the Internally Generated Revenues. Debate Three Clauses were added which include: 1. The account the money was paid to should be investigated. 2. The investigation should ascertain if other monies have been paid into it. 3. Any monies found to be for Government Agencies should be returned to the Federation account. Petition by Sunday Williams: Hon. Uzoma Nkem-Abonta: “That the House do consider the Report of the Committee on Public Petitions on the Petition by Sunday Williams against the Nigeria Police Force on Unjustified retirement from Service and approve the recommendation therein” (Laid: 21/11/2017). That Sunday Williams should go to his office, meet Commissioner of Police, Welfare and submit the necessary documents needed for him to be retired appropriately, and his pensions and gratuity paid to him. Adjournment The House adjourned Plenary till Thursday, April 19 by 11:00 Am A.M Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. With a decade experience in Television journalism, and a graduate of University of Maiduguri. Tanimu also produces TV shows with NTA when not on Social media.