Mr. Yusuf Kazaure, the Managing Director, Galaxy Backbone, said setting the right priorities and efficient management of available funds would enable government agencies to execute projects. Mr. Yusuf Kazaure, the Managing Director, Galaxy Backbone Ltd Kazaure said this at a News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) forum in Abuja. He attributed the successes of the organization to its ability to manage the limited government funds efficiently, adding that resources were never enough to execute all projects. “You can never have all the funds you need, especially in the context of government; it is all about how efficiently and judiciously you are able to deploy those resources. “It is all about prioritization. You cannot do everything at once and that is how we have been trying to get on by prioritizing certain services at a particular time for everybody. “Galaxy has done very well with the limited resources available; you can never have all you want because the resources are limited. “Being able to deliver within the constraints of what you have, I think it’s one of the successes Galaxy has achieved.” The MD said that part of the organization’s success was being able to host the websites of up to 300 Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government efficiently among other achievements. According to him, connecting the MDA on a platform will encourage data distribution within the government purview. “Over the past 10 years, we have been able to connect all MDAs, provide email addresses for government organizations, we have hosted the website of at least close to 300 MDAs within the country. “The country in the past two or three years has been doing its budget online, these budgets are submitted online by various MDAs and they are submitted unto Galaxy Backbone and its infrastructure. “Currently, if you look at the traffic pattern on the Galaxy network, you will probably see about 70 percent of all the traffic are trying to go to the internet. “ The success for us is that when 80 percent of this traffic remains within the government network, it means people have now started exchanging network between government MDAs,” he said. Kazaure said that the government could easily reap the value of its investments in MDAs’ connectivity, adding that the infrastructure was already available. 