The Nigerian Army has challenged its Special Forces to prove that they have better training and tactics than terrorists by making the difference and positive impact in the ongoing counter-terrorism operations. Tukur Yusuf BurataiNigeria’s COAS The Chief of Army of Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, gave the charge in Maiduguri on Sunday, while addressing the Armed Forces Special Forces and Army Strike Group deployed in the North-East. “You are selected specially and deployed here in the North East. You are given special training and that is why you are called Special Forces. “I am here to tell you that you have a great job to do and you must do it properly. “You are deployed in the North-East to make a difference because of your special training. If there will be any challenge in terms of capacity, I believe you will fill that gap and you have all it takes to do that. “If you apply the training that you are given, we all have cause to be proud to belong the armed forces of our great country,’’ Buratai said. He warned them against exhibiting cowardice, saying “we do not have time for the chicken-hearted, the cowards. “You all must brace up and be brave. We have done the greatest job so far in the North-East; the greatest in terms of degrading the terrorists. “We are better trained, better equipped. We know tactics better than them and what is remaining for us is to dominate everywhere and dominate our areas of responsibilities. “We must dominate the whole of the North-East.’’ He added that “the terrorists must no longer be allowed the freedom to move about and commit heinous crime and escape. “They must be dealt with squarely. We must say no to their vain and invalid threats. “Henceforth, there should be no dull moment in our operations. There should be no gap, but make a difference,’’ (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in business development, and social media management. He has a degree in Electronic & Computer Engineering. He is currently stationed at the Online Unit of Nigerian Television Authority