Abba Kyari, Abuja: IGP’s Intelligence Response Team (IRT) arrested 22 dreaded Boko Haram terrorist commanders and group members responsible for the kidnapping of the Chibok School Girls, over 50 suicide bombings within Maiduguri Borno State and Adamawa State, invasion of Bama and Gwoza. Several attacks/ambush and Killing of thousands of innocent Nigerians including security agents and civilians in Borno and other Northeastern States of Nigeria. Recovery Of 11 Ak47 Rifles and other weapons/explosives. Irked and worried by the persistent happenings on innocent citizens in the North East by the dreaded Boko Haram terrorist group terrorising the region. IGP Ibrahim K. Idris equipped and deployed the Special Operatives of the IGP (IRT) with enough technical intelligence to Maiduguri Borno State with the mandate to trace and arrest all the TERRORIST responsible for the suicide bombings and other terrorist attacks in the North East. After a lot of planning and use of advance technology, between 04/07/18 and 09/07/18. IRT special teams with support from SARS/CRACK in Borno State command swung into action and eventually succeeded in arresting 22 confirmed Boko Haram Terrorists (BHT) who confessed to several suicide bomb explosions within Borno and Adamawa States, kidnapping of the Chibok School Girls and invasions Of Bama/Gwoza among many other crimes. Suspects narrated various roles each of them played. Amongst them are the commanders and coordinators of suicide bombings in Borno State, coordinator and members of the Chibok School Girls kidnapping, ambush on security agents, logistics suppliers and their receivers of gold, international currencies, cows etc. Suspects arrested are; (1) Mayinta Modu AKA Abor 23yrs from Bama LGA Borno State: He confessed to being one of the Boko Haram Commanders who coordinated and led the kidnapping of the Chibok School Girls in 2014 and Several Attacks on Bama, Gwoza and Mubi towns in Borno and Adamawa States. (2) Adam Mohammed 20yrs, from Bama LGA Borno: Confessed to have Participated in Chibok School Girls Kidnapping and Coordinating Suicide Bombings. (3) Gujja Jidda 21yrs from Bama LGA Borno State: Confessed to have Participated in the Chibok School Girls Kidnapping and Coordinating Suicide bombings. (4) Mamman Wardi 25yrs from Bama LGA Borno State: Confessed to Participating in the Chibok School Girls Kidnapping and Coordinating Suicide bombings. (5) Alhaji Modu Jidda 29yrs from Bama LGA Borno State: Confessed to have Participated in the Chibok School Girls Kidnapping and Coordinating Suicide Bombings. (6) Ajiri Bulama Dungus 22yrs from Bama LGA: Confessed to have participated in the Chibok School Girls Kidnappings And Suicide Bombings. (7) Mohammed Abba 20yrs from Bama LGA Borno State: Confessed to have Participated in the Chibok School Girls Kidnapping. (8) Fannami Mustapha 22yrs from Bama LGA Borno State: Confessed to have participated in the Chibok School Girls Kidnapping and Coordinating Suicide Bombings. (9) Adam Mustapha AKA Ba’Adam 20yrs native of Kalabalge LGA: Overall Coordinator and Kingpin of Suicide Bombings in Maiduguri and Adamawa State who conveys female and male suicide bombers from Sambisa Forest to Different locations in Maiduguri and Adamawa States to detonate their Bombs, he also confessed to be mastermind of the suicide bomb blasts in Baga road, Bulunkutu, Custom, Post Office, 3-3, Muna etc in Maiduguri that led to the destruction of lives and prosperities. (10) Mustapha Kanimbu AKA Aaramma 20yrs native of Mobbar Borno State: He is one of the Boko Haram Terrorist Commander who supplies logistics to the group members in Sambisa and also confessed to Have participated in Several Attacks and Killing of Hundreds of people in Maiduguri. (11) Ibrahim Mala 48yrs native of Gwoza LGA Borno State: He is one of the BHT Commanders who lives in Dalori karekere MMC Borno State and supplies food and logistics to his members in the Sambisa Forrest. (12) Abdullahi Mohammed Gawi 23yrs from Bama LGA Borno State: confessed member. (13) Maina Adam 35yrs from Bama LGA Borno State: confessed Member. (14) Wano Musa 27yrs native of Bama LGA Borno State: confessed member and Coordinating Suicide bombings. (15) Ishaka Musa 26yrs from Bama LGA Borno State: Confessed Member and Coordinating Suicide Bombings. (16) Abubakar Mohammed 28yrs Native of Nganzai LGA Borno State: Confessed Member and Coordinating Suicide bombings. (17) Usman Umar 28yrs Native of Bama LGA Borno State: Confessed member and Coordinating Suicide bombings. (18) Maina Abba 27yrs native of Ngazai LGA Borno State:?confessed to Member. (19) Maina Gambo 24yrs native of Nganzai LGA Borno State: Confessed member. (20) Abubakar Kori 25yrs native of Nganzai LGA Borno State: Confessed member and Coordinating Suicide Bombings. (21) Bukar Abatcha 39yrs Kanuri by tribe from Marte LGA Borno State, also a confessed member and major Logistics supplier to BHT Commanders living in the Bush. (22) Muhammad Bashir AKA Kalijango 35yrs from Gambaru Ngala a civilian JTF Aiding and Assisting BHT to supply logistics. All the TERRORIST were arrested in different locations within Borno And Yobe States. All suspects arrested have confessed to be masterminds of several attacks and suicide bomb blasts in the past in Baga Road, 3-3, Custom Area, Bulunkutu, Post Office, Muna, Kasuwan Shanu, Dalori IDP camp etc, in Maiduguri and many suicide attacks in Adamawa State, Killing of thousands of innocent Nigerians including ambush on security agencies and civilians in the many parts of Northeast Nigeria. 11 Rifles and many other weapons and exhibits recovered from the deadly terrorist group. Suspects are helping the Operatives with useful information to arrest other fleeing BHT Commanders. A.M Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. With a decade experience in Television journalism, and a graduate of University of Maiduguri. Tanimu also produces TV shows with NTA when not on Social media.