The Vice Chancellor of the Akwa Ibom University, Prof. Eno James Ibanga, said his university does not give admission to students with tattoos. He made the disclosure in an interview with newsmen, saying that students are thoroughly screened before being admitted, also to check that they do not belong to cults. One of the criteria for admission is the no-tattoo policy. In the interview held at Kkpat Enin, Ibang said over 90 per cent of programmes of the institution have received full accreditation from the National University Commission. Courses on religious studies, mass communication, history and international relations have received interim accreditation from the NUC, he said. He said that the accreditation team from National University Commission would visit the institution to complete the accreditation of the remaining three programmes. He commended the state government for allowing the university enjoy  autonomy in spite of the fact that it is state-owned. The vice chancellor said that apart from autonomy, the management of the school enjoys support from the Governing Council and the state government. “All faculties except three programmes have full accreditation and the management only admits students within its capacity. The university at present  has  7,300 students. “I count myself blessed to be a Vice Chancellor of Akwa Ibom State University. We have autonomy. Without it, the institution will not succeed and the autonomy has been upheld by the government. The management of Akwa Ibom State University, (AKSU) has free hands and autonomy to operate to achieve academic excellence,” Ibanga said. Ibanga noted that the school has developed  the infrastructure it needs to give students the appropriate  training that would create jobs for them. “We encourage our staff to go into  research and develop the place. Akwa Ibom University has entered into collaborations with some foreign institutions in the area of research and training. “We have been very liberal in dealing with staff matters. We pay salaries  before the end of the month. We give extra incentives to staff as well,” he said. 