By Funmilayo Adeyemi Cherryfield College, Abuja, has clinched the overall best in the 2018 National Spelling Bee Competition. The school came top among the 5,000 students, who participated in the competition sponsored by Indomie noodles. The overall best would be representing Nigeria in an International Spelling Bee competition at the United State of America later in the year. The school had also won the competition twice within a space of three years. Miss Chigorizim Ude-Ibe, a 13-year-old student of the school was the overall best with a cash prize of N500, 000 with other consolation prizes, while Favour Echoga, who is also 13 years old, came 6th in the competition, both students of the school. Members of staff of the school and students graced the occasion when they welcomed the two students, who represented the school in the competition on their arrival at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, in Abuja, on Thursday. Mr Matthew Amoke, the spelling bee coach of the school, said the school management was overwhelmed with the news of the students victory in the competition. Amoke said the competition gave an opportunity for participants in the competition to develop and improve their pronunciation techniques in English Language. According to him, language is the key to every nations life and the development of a child. ” We all know that spelling bee competition place a vital role in the growth of an ideal child academically. ” It projects the spirit of competition, learning as well as patient. ” A lot of things are integrated in spelling bee competition, it is a worthwhile venture as language is life.” He added that the students were not retarded as they were determined to scale through the top despite failure of the school to make it through in the competition in 2016 and 2017. He, therefore, encouraged students to pursue their dreams in every areas they have identified to be of interest to them, saying with determination they can attain their utmost height in life. He promised that with proper coaching and learning, the students would make Nigeria proud in the competition at the United States of America. Also, Mrs Comfort Abah, a teacher of Visual Arts in the school, said the students had made Nigeria proud while calling on other students to put in their efforts to achieve success academically. However, the winner, Miss Chigozirim Ude-Ibe, said what motivated her was the ability to increase her self-esteem regardless of the crowd. ” It was quite challenging and a bit scaring looking at the large number of participants I am to compete with. “But I am able to overcome this with thorough study and more zeal to achieve success.” Also, Favour Echoga, said she was able to scale to the 6th position due to constant practicing of her work. The school came top and second best at the 2016 and 2017 Africa Top Schools Award respectively among other awards. 