Brig. Gen. Kazaure, the Director-General of National Youths Service Corps (NYSC), has advised corps members to inculcate the spirit of self-reliance to boost their standard of living and that of the nation. Brig. Gen. Sulaiman KazaureDG, NYSC Kazaure gave the advice when he visited Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 corps members deployed to Imo at the NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp in Eziama Obaire in Nkwerre Local Government area. Kazaure, who was represented by Mrs Nnenna Ukonu, a Director in the NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja, congratulated the corps members for their success and for making it to camp. He said the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED), one of the cardinal programmes of the scheme, provided the avenue to prepare corps members as future entrepreneurs and employers of labour. He said that countries like Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia were able to advance economically due to their entrepreneurial ability and spirit of self reliance and urged corps members to take SAED seriously. “SAED is meant to prepare you for the future. Be serious with it. There is need to be self reliant aside being engaged in a white colar job. “We expect you to take the country’s economy from its present level to another level. Nigerians, all over the world, are breaking grounds, we expect you take your thinking cap and make the country greater,” he said. The NYSC boss urged the corps members to shun illicit drugs and acts that were inimical to the well being of the society, especially in the community they would be posted to. Earlier, the state NYSC Coordinator, Mrs Josephine Bakare, had said that 1,903 corps members, comprising 954 male and 958 female, were posted to Imo State. She said the corps members had exhibited leadership prowess, loyalty, discipline and commitment to the SAED programme. Bakare advised them to take their primary assignment seriously and ensure they would leave Imo better than they met it through their community development programmes. Bakare commended the host communities and the Imo government for their various support to the scheme, saying they now had hostels, good bore holes and functional clinic. She identified poor electrify supply as the major challenge of the scheme in the state. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in business development, and social media management. He has a degree in Electronic & Computer Engineering. He is currently stationed at the Online Unit of Nigerian Television Authority