FADAMA III World Bank-Assisted Project under the additional Financing Project in Bauchi state has distributed over 200 domestic animals to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). ‎ Speaking at the distribution ceremony on Wednesday in Bauchi, Mr Mohammed Abdul, state Communications officer, FADAMA III Project said that the initiative was tagged, “North East Food Security and Livelihood Emergency Support Project.” ‎ Abdul said that the project was being implemented as a result of insurgency that ravaged the region. ‎ “The distribution of the domestic animals such as sheep, rams, goat and she-goat is ongoing to the beneficiaries across the 20 Local Government Areas with the intervention encompassing every registered IDP in the state. ‎ “Under the Small Ruminants intervention, each head of forty (40) households are given four sheep and a ram or four she-goat and one he-goat, in line with beneficiaries’ interests in breeding,” Abdul said. ‎ He further disclosed that the project was not restricted to distribution of small ruminants alone but with empowerment tools. ‎ “Based on the needs of IDPs who are the beneficiaries, the project also assisted them through food, poultry/fishing with feeds, provision of seedlings of maize, rice, insecticides and fertilizer. ‎ “Others include empowerment vocation tools likes refrigerators, knitting and sewing machines. “The project also engages some beneficiaries in the construction of community culverts, boreholes and drainages,” he said ‎ ‎ Responding, the Chairman, IDPs of Warji LGA, Malam Mohammadu Ahmadu expressed gratitude to FADAMA for the gesture, describing it as ”humanitarian support.” ‎ “Not only does FADAMA Project assists us with animals for economic activity, they also give us food, condiments, seedlings, fertiliser and other empowerment tools like fridges, sewing and knitting machines. ‎ The News Agency Of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the distribution was conducted under the supervision of FADAMA state/LG officials, representatives of IDPs and the Civil Society Organizations. 