The Nigerian Police Force, Plateau State Command, has declared eight persons wanted in connection with the abduction and disappearance of Major General Idris Alkali. Among the eight persons wanted in a statement on Wednesday is 52 year-old Yakubu Rap, said to be the district head of Dura, where the vehicle of Alkali was recovered in a pond. Others are Moses Gyang, a.k.a boss, Timothy Chuan, Pam Gyang Dung, Mathew Wrang, also known as Amesco, Da Chuwang Samuel, a 28 year-old with the nickname of Morinho and Nyam Samuel, 25, also known as Soft Touch. All the suspects belong to the Berom ethnic group. On 13 October, the Nigeria Army presented to newsmen in Jos 13 suspects arrested in connection with the missing Alkali. Brig.-Gen. Umar Muhammed, Garrison Commander, 3 Division, Nigeria Army, Rukuba, near Jos, thereafter handed the suspects to the police for full investigation. Muhammed said that the people were arrested in the area where the general’s missing car was found. Alkali, the immediate past Chief of Administration, Army Headquarters, Abuja, was declared missing on Sept. 3. He was said to have gone missing on his way to Bauchi from Abuja. Consequently, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, set up a search operation. The army authorities said that after a thorough investigation, they narrowed the search to a mining pond in Dura-Du in Jos South Local Government of Plateau. After two weeks of draining water from pond, Alkali’s car and two others were recovered from the pond. Muhammed stated that a “cordon and search’’ operation was conducted in the community and some people were apprehended. He said: “They were moved to the barracks where they were screened, profiled and interrogated. “The persons to be handed over to police include those who were in possession of fire arms without licence. “Those who heard and saw the criminals that stopped the retired senior officer and those that pushed his vehicle into the pond but failed to report these criminal acts to the security agencies will also be handed over.” 