The resettlement, relocation and rehabilitation unit of the PCNI is currently undertaking a ten-day visit to Adamawa, Yobe and Borno States as its commences its programme of resettlement in the North East. The first phase of the programme consists of village regrouping and urban upgrading is the focus of the tour. The programme is a response to the impact of the insurgency on housing. A total of 292,217 houses were completely destroyed while 430,467 others were partially resulting in homelessness and the desertion of many rural settlements. To address these challenges, the Resettlement, Rehabilitation and Relocation Unit of the PCNI in collaboration with UN-Habitat, has conceived a programme of rehabilitation aimed at the devastated and damaged rural communities in the North East. It also includes provisions for the upgrading of major urban centres which have witnessed massive increments in population due to the influx of displaced people from the villages. The program is to be carried in two phases namely village regrouping and urban upgrading. The current visit is being conducted in collaboration with UN-Habitat commenced the tour in Adamawa on the 22nd of October and will remain in the state till the 25th. The tour is a sequel to the 3-day Stakeholders Sensitization Workshop and Training of the Consultants that held on 30th – 31st May 2018. At the onset of the tour, the team paid a courtesy visit to the Adamawa State, Governor Umaru Jibrilla where it briefed him on progress made on the village regrouping and settlement scheme and introduce the project consultants for acceptance and support. The combined team of PCNI and UN-Habitat members and the Adamawa State stakeholders will visit Michika and Madagali to carry out a feasibility study and also engage with community leaders, traditional rulers and other local influencers to secure their buy-in for the scheme. The Project Management and Initiation Visits to Yobe and Borno are scheduled to be carried out in the 1st and 2nd week of November. Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. Produces when not on Social media.